[Music]
Damn, I think I um tore a quad. Today's
heavy squat day and I've got um someone
from your mom's favorite channel is uh
on the on the camera today. Are you
going to say hello to us?
[Laughter]
But anyway, he's going to be recording.
but also something about having a strong
person recording. Sometimes I might get
him to put the camera down and spot me
and all those things. So, it's a bloody
twoin- one. Anyhow, today's heavy squats
and I'm a little bit nervous because
last phase was kind of like a bit of an
unload for my squats so that I could
focus on pushing my deadlifts forward.
So, if you've been following Oh, I
haven't posted it yet, but I will be. I
did a 310 kg single. That was my goal is
to just get to a 310 kilogram single and
then get my heavy deadlifts out of the
way. Now my deadlifts are going to be on
uh you know like supplementary mode. So
that's going to be my back down work,
but I'm focusing on bringing my squat
back again. So my last phase, my
heaviest that I got to was 270 kg for
two reps
paused. And that's considered light even
though it's not light and it's very
stressful. If you if you watch how I
train and get my head focused for my
lifts, I am very stressed the entire
session. Um, and today's not not going
to be any different. In fact, it's going
to be a little bit more stressful
because now my priority is my squats.
So, I've been negotiating some numbers
with Reese, um, the cameraman, if you
didn't know that was his name. Do they
know that's your name? No, probably not.
Oh, they do now. That's That's Reese.
And, and, um, you know, he's got a lot
of valuable insight. He's a 410 kg
squatter. 415, sir. 415. Sorry to to rip
you off 5 kg. Five is a lot. Every
kilogram counts. Yeah. and 415 is a lot.
So, I love running um my ideas of strong
people. So, it's very handy and I had a
few numbers in mind and we're going to
see. So, like loosely it was kind of
like around like 250 for fiveish or 270
for 3ish. We're kind of tossing up
between those two. Like 270 sounds
harder but three reps sounds easier if
you get me. Five reps sounds horrible.
Uh anyhow, so I would like to get 270
for three. Uh, and that's what I love
about being on camera is like you guys
hold me accountable. Like when you guys
when I'm not on camera, I go, "Oh yeah,
it's nice to have the idea of doing 270
for three and then as I'm going it's
like it's quite heavy. No one will
know." You know what I mean? Anyway, you
guys will know. So, I guess we've made
up our mind. 270 kg for three
reps. That's exhausting. Anyhow, so I've
done some warm-ups and now I'm going to
be doing my first set with a plate on
there. So, we're going to be doing five
reds today. And while we go, I'm going
to talk about some cues as I do uh and
just some new interactions that I've had
on the weekend. I did a seminar in Perth
and I noticed a few things, a few cues
that I like to give for um for myself,
but don't always apply so well for
beginners and
intermediates. Okay. So, that's
something that I'm kind of encountering.
Like, I've got um my rules that I like
to follow for my squats that I look for.
Uh, but then yeah, working with people
that are kind of like new to these
techniques, I'm going to get a little
bit technical with what happens with
your like where you look and how it
influences your spine and how that
influences your butt wig and all of
these things. So, we're going to talk a
little bit about that. So, check this
out. So, look at where I hold the bar.
That's cuz I've got very, very tight
shoulders. So, if anyone's wondering and
say, "Aren't you meant to hold it
close?" I promise you this is me holding
it close. I can't go closer than this.
Not yet. I got to warm up a So, check
this out. Okay. So, one of the cues that
I like to teach is to look straight
ahead. And that's not relative to spine
position, but rather
balance. But I'm noticing that many
people when they look up, they beat
their chest up too much and they arch
like this when they look up. And when
they arch like that, they go into buckle
at the bottom. Right? So, what I've
learned is I've got the ability to lift
my head up in absence of what I do here.
I can separate these two things. So,
what I say with my brace is to piss up
the wall. Head up. So, looking straight
ahead. Piss up the wall. So, you're not
arching your tail
backwards. Right. So, this is the
interesting thing that I've noticed when
I'm working with a beginner. It's kind
of like the rules kind of change when
I'm teaching them. So, something that
was um helping a lot of times with
beginners uh is the cue look down. And
you may have heard the queue chest up
before. Uh I was actually queuing all
weekend to all of these individuals that
that you know arching back like this.
Chest down. So, that was my cue chest
down. Don't fear tipping forward. Right.
In a low bar squat, there is forward
torso lean. You might hear um if you
ever hear me screaming behind any of my
top lifters, I scream out upright,
upright, upright. Now, that's a cue
that's unique to my super strong
lifters. So, if I'm standing behind
Reese, who's about to squat 4 kg, the
moment he unrackcks it, it wants to
crush him. So, he's fighting to hold it
upright. Now, upright relative to his
position, there is always going to be
forward torso
lean, right? So when I say upright, I'm
not after this like that's impossible to
achieve, right? So there's always going
to be some type of forward torso length.
So the queue of
upright, this is where queuing, you need
to understand that there's no such thing
as right queue and a wrong Q. It's the
cue that resonates with the individual
that you're giving it to. Okay? So you
might hear people say chest up. That
might be unique to the person that it's
being told to, but I was giving the cue
to a lot of people chest down. So
anyway, what's the context to all of
this? There is forward torso lean in a
low bar squat. There is forward torso
lean and don't be scared of that. The
more forward torso lean there is, the
more you're going to recruit your strong
hips and that's totally fine. However,
once you get to a point where you're
squatting triple body weight, right?
That's when it gets a little bit harder
and the focus comes more to balancing
that bar on your back and not getting
crushed forward rather than, you know,
using the hip hinge or or whatever those
cues are going to be. So anyway,
understand I'm going to go through all
of the cues today that I'm going to be
following as well as introduce a few
caveats to how it might apply to
beginners and intermediates just so that
whoever is viewing it at home can maybe
something relates to you and you can
learn a little bit from today. Anyhow,
so far so good. That's 70 kg. I'm going
to go up in 25 kg jumps. Let's go.
So that feels strange. The last phase I
was doing pause reps. So I taught myself
to go pretty slow. Um and now it's like,
oh, you got to not do that anymore. So
now actually,
um, a cue that I technique that I teach
with with speed is to start slow and
gradually accelerate in and out of the
hole. So something you got to think
about is, you know, this is 95 kg, so
it's not that heavy, so it's easy for me
to use whatever tempo I want. The next
thing you got to think about is what's
the tempo you're going to use on the top
set. So when I get to 270 kg, I'm not
going to just be able to jump around.
I've got to really control it and guide
it the way that I want to do it. So
that's why right now I want to practice
for that. So instead of just dumping the
bar really fast cuz it's really light
and disregarding technique, I'm going to
think of what's the technique and speed
that I'm going to be using for my top
set. And the goal is start slow and
gradually
accelerate in and out of the hole,
right? So some people teach fast down
equals fast up. That's the law of
kinetic energy. And it's true. If you're
like a tennis ball, right? But the thing
is we're not tennis balls and we're
controlling very very heavy weights. And
actually at that weight the barbell it
bounces a little bit. So, we need to
really balance it um so it doesn't shake
us out of position. So, that's why you
can't just um you know drop as fast as
possible. So, so
precision matters, right? So, that's why
that's my rule. Start slow and gradually
accelerate in and out of the hole. And
that's what I've got to try and relearn
from now. So, as I said, my last phase
was pul squats. There was none of that.
It was down slowly and stopping and
coming up, which is great stimulus.
teaches you to be strong in absence of
momentum. But now in a competition, you
can use momentum to your advantage. And
that's my favorite way of doing it. So
that's what you're going to see me
relearning and practicing the skill of
as I'm warming up so that hopefully I
can do it on my top
step. All
right. So look at my fingers now. I'm
trying to bring my hands in a little bit
cuz the first set is really tight. And I
get warmer and warmer and I try and
bring my hands in. Right? So now this is
the first grip that I use. It's the
talon grip. So it's three fingers and
that makes it just a little bit um more
comfortable for my shoulders. But watch
this. It's the first set of hands on the
bar. It's very tight. Oh man. Damn.
Okay.
So, it's especially tight on my shoulder
cuz I just benched yesterday as well.
So, those are things that we need to
factor in. Um, other than that, it feels
good. 25 kilos
up, 145.
Easy. Come on. Let's get
it.
Feels good. It's like the hardest part
of the lift is unrackcking, walking out,
lowering it. I want to lower it really
precisely, you know? So, what does
precise mean? I'm aiming for the barbell
to to land in line with my midoot,
right? So, I want it to land here. If
I'm tipping too far forward and it's,
you know, away from my midoot, that's
harder for me. So, if I land on the
sweet spot, it comes up nicely. So,
that's what I feel. It's like, ah, this
is heavy. Walk out. This is hard. Tight
on my shoulders. Okay, this is hard.
This is hard. And then I just go, "Oh,
that was easy." So, that's a nice
feeling, I guess. Um, the important part
is the up part, and that's feeling easy.
So, 170. I got 100 kg to go.
[__] [__] Camera. Ah,
I don't know if we should. Ah,
that's so annoying. Do you know why?
Everyone's going to say, "You should
have known. Why are you using that
rack?" All these things. I forgot to
screw that in. Oh, yes. Right. So, when
I when I screw that in, it's tight and
it's strong and all that stuff. Silly
Billy. Anyway, lucky that was only on
the 195. I'll screw that in. Then we'll
keep on going. Silly Billy. So, I got
two more warm-ups. So that's 220 and um
it's feeling heavy but it always does
you know like you think you know just as
you know as you get stronger that
everything is much easier. Everything
still feels hard. So you know coming
down on that last set 195 it's like I'm
noticing I'm having to recondition
myself to the speed. I underestimated it
and I'm moving quite slowly actually. Um
so anyway that is what it is. So 220
next. Um, my shoulders are starting to
feel a little bit looser. So, what I'm
going to be doing, have a look here. So,
if my my hands were kind of here, so
that's the talon grip. I want to try and
bring them in slightly so it makes it
more tension on my upper
back. Um,
and the goal is to wedge it down really,
really low on my delts. So, it's a
really aggressive low bar position.
That's another little thing that I kind
of work towards on my heavier sets. So,
this is what I like to say. Imagine,
imagine this is your deltoid. So on a
low bar squat, the barbell needs to sit
on your delt. So that's the the big
round muscle at the back of your
shoulder. So that's a low bar squat. So
this is me at the start of the session.
And then as I get warmer and warmer and
warmer, I wedge the bar lower, lower,
lower, lower, lower. So So it's about
there. What I say is once you pass that
halfway point, you're off the shelf. So,
as long as you stay just above like you
you'll see it and you'll feel it just
above that midline of the belly of the
deltoid, that's where I try and get
right now. So, the lower you can get it,
the more you can use your hips. So, I
put up a video not long ago.
Um, there's a few really great French
lifters. There's one in particular.
She's unbelievable. 47 kilo chick turbo
tiff. Shout out. uh 165 kilogram squat
world record. Maybe she's even stronger
than that now. It's unreal. But she goes
quite low. She's she's under that and
her hands in are really really tight. Um
so I guess that's allowed, but that's a
very strong lever for me. That
negatively impacts my my bench press. So
the lower you have it, the more strain
you put on your shoulders. Uh and then
it affects how how you perform your
upper body exercises. Anyhow, so for me,
that's what I'm aiming for. I'm going to
really wedge it down. So, it's going to
get tighter and tighter and tighter so
that I can use my strong hips for this
lift. All right, let's do it.
Let's get it.
Come on.
All
right. Tight on the shoulders. All
right. Okay. 220. One more warm-up set,
which is going to be 245 and then we're
on. Come on, baby. Let's get it.
[Music]
Okay. M
felt heavy, but it felt comfortable at
the same time. I feel like I know what
to do to get the 270 for a triple. And
that's push really, really, really hard
three times.
Yeah, that's the thing. It's going to
hurt. You know, it's going to hurt. Um,
but then I walk away. So, that's my
favorite part of the session is walking
away, looking at it going, "Yeah, I'm
glad I did that, and I'm glad that's
done." So, we're going to do um 270
next. Let me have a look at uh let's
have a look at the the replay of
this. So, it's not particularly
fast. It was all right. You know, I can
I can feel
the I can feel the bar shaking now,
which is me being silly by using the
bumper plates. That's my little thing
where I'd use the bump plates because it
looks heavier. It's more impressive. I
like the feeling of that. Um, but
objectively, it's a little bit harder
because the further out to the ends the
weight goes, the more the barbell bends,
which is another advantage of using the
thinner plates. There's less whip,
there's less bend,
which I don't like to go above 270 with
bumpers. I have before, but it's ugly.
It shakes a lot. and and 270 is probably
going to move a lot, but that's okay.
Uh, and then next week if I'm exploring
weights like 280 and plus, I'm going to
go the calibrated thin plates. But for
now, 270 and
bumpers. Come on. Come on.
[Music]
[__]
go. Come on.
Let's
go. Drive.
Damn. I think I um tore a quad.
Yeah. Damn it. Yeah.
Yeah, it just went pop on the second
rep. That's Did you say you heard it?
You probably didn't.
She's being dramatic. Did you hear that?
I I I definitely felt it did. It did do
that. Just went It just went pop. I felt
it on the first rep. I not I didn't feel
it pop. I felt the the strain and then
on the second rep just went don
which is frustrating.
Damn. Damn. You know, it's strange
because I feel like I could have stood
the second rep
up.
Um but then I thought if I do it'll
probably make it worse. Um which means
maybe it's not like a tear. I I don't
know. Like something popped. Something
popped. And I've I've had it
before, so who knows what'll happen.
I'll probably know in about um a couple
hours when my adrenaline wears down.
Um
damn.
Anyway. All right. Um it's been like 2
minutes since I dropped the weight and
you know, it's not that painful. I don't
think it's anything major.
Um, but a lot of the times when the
adrenaline's high, um, you can't feel it
so well. So, this is what I teach people
is if you have like a minor injury or
whatever it is, just stop. Just stop.
Don't try and push through. Um, and I
say, you know, 24 hours, do nothing,
right? So, don't absolutely no
stretching. Um, so if you tear a muscle,
imagine it, you tear a muscle and then
you stretch it. What do you think's
going to happen? Nothing good. You know,
this is where you can increase the size
of the tear, right? So, tearing is
definitely not what you do. Um, sorry,
stretching is definitely not what you do
after a tear. Uh, and you you do
nothing. So, not even ice. So, there's
like the first aid protocol these days,
which is rice, rest, ice, compression,
elevate. Um, the person who invented
that took the ice component out of it.
So nowadays, the recommendation isn't to
ice it either. It's just to let it be.
So, that's what I'm going to be doing is
I'm just going to leave it for 24 hours.
I'm not going to do any accessory
exercises. Um, and
psychologically, I'll tell you now, I'll
be a little bit upset if there's
something that's going to stop me from
moving forward. Um, you know, not long
ago, I I did something similar to my
hamstring. It was like a very minor tear
on my hamstring,
and I worked through it like kind of
like two weeks later, I was deadlifting
again. not as heavy of course, but it
took maybe a month to get back to where
I was. So, I think I don't think it's
that bad of a tear that it's gonna um
you know, like it's not career ending
type of thing. Um I think it's something
that I just need to be mindful of and
just back off for a few weeks.
Um but here's the next thing. So, 24
hours. So, this is my recommendation for
injuries. 24 hours do absolutely
nothing. Um, and then when you think you
can start, you know, like loading the
exact muscle without pain. So that could
mean for me less than body weight
squats. So I'd probably start loading it
in, you know, in a day or so just to see
what the damage is on a on an empty leg
press and just do high reps on that. Um,
same with any muscle tear that's not
like so if it if it's a tear, if it's a
tear, it might not be. If it's a tear,
that's called a grade one tear, which is
where everything's still attached. It's
definitely not come off the bone. If it
was off the bone, I couldn't walk. So,
it's definitely not that.
So, if it's any of those, these
recommendations that I'm giving you do
not apply. Right? So, if it's a grade
one tear or or some little strain like
that in the belly, 24 hours, do nothing.
After that, the way that I do it, I'm
not telling anyone at home to do it. I'm
not a
physiootherapist. Um, the way that I do
it is I start um training the exact
muscle that I've injured with a very,
very light weight. So, for example, like
a bench press, I've torn my pegs with
very very um you know, minor grade tear.
And the next day come in and I go empty
barbell for sets of 20 and then every
day come in and add 5 kg to that. So,
five aside, so 20 kg, 30 kg, 40 kg every
single day, sets 20, sets 20. Um and the
strange thing is like the day later 20
kg I was able to do that with no pain
and then the but if I was to go 30 kg
that day, it hurt me a little bit,
right? So, that's the indicator. So, if
anything hurts, this is how I do it for
myself. I'm not telling you guys to do
it. If anything hurts, um, you stop.
That's an indicator of it is too heavy.
So, that's what I'll do is I'll come in
tomorrow and I'll do some leg press with
very, very light weight, lots and lots
and lots of reps, like five sets of 20.
And then the next day, I'll come in and
I'll add a little bit of weight and I'll
do the same thing. And then I'll keep on
doing that. And that's going to give me
a really big indication of how bad the
actual damage is. Uh, but anyway, um,
yeah, I just looked back at the replay
of the squat as well, and I dropped it
on my way up. So, as I was saying, I I I
felt like I can still stand, but I felt
it pop, and I don't want to do anything
silly now. So, it is what it is. Um, but
that's the end of the session. So, no
more training until next time, fam,
which is going to be upper body day. So,
that won't interfere with what I do for
my bench press. So, I'll come back for
some upper body and then hopefully um
I'll be good to go for my for my lower
body session on the next time, but it'll
just be like rehab stuff. Anyway, hope
you enjoyed watching me t my quad and
I'll see you guys next time.